add GA lifecycle docs (#152)
upbound/docs: content/knowledge-base/lifecycle.md

---
title: Product Lifecycle
---

## Software List

> Upbound provides support and sofwtare maintenance to paid customers. Our supported software products include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upbound provides support and software maintenance to paid customers. Our supported software products include:
```

* [UXP](https://www.upbound.io/product/universal-crossplane)

> * [Official Providers](https://marketplace.upbound.io/providers?tier=official)

Reviewer: **question (non-blocking)**: Would it be better to link to the Upbound docs pages here rather than the external links? 

I.e., https://docs.upbound.io/upbound-marketplace/providers/ and https://docs.upbound.io/uxp/

## Maintenance and Updates

> Upbound supports Generally Available releases for up to 12 months. Eligible code-fixes are provided via a new minor release on top of the latest major release branch for up to 3 releases from the most current major release. All software follows semantic versioning of `X.Y.Z`. A major release is a change in the first or second digit. A minor release is a change in the third digit.

Reviewer: >A major release is a change in the first or second digit. A minor release is a change in the third digit.

This isn't accurate.

The [formal definition](https://semver.org/) is:
```
MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes
MINOR version when you add functionality in a backward compatible manner
PATCH version when you make backward compatible bug fixes
```

How we use it today at Upbound (and XP) based on my observation is:

- A major release is a change in the first digit and usually indicates breaking API changes or, in the case of 1.0.0, indicates the first release where the API is considered complete (-enough) and stable.
- A minor release is a change in the second digit and usually indicates new features added, and usually also includes bug fixes that might not have been released yet in a previous patch release.
- A patch release is a change in the third digit and only contains bug fixes, no new features.

We have followed this strictly in XP/UXP, less so to date in the providers.
Due to the previous release cadence and pace of development on the providers we simply defaulted to bumping the minor version. We should start following the semver pattern strictly going forward.

### UXP Schedule

> UXP follows the [Crossplane Release Cycle](https://docs.crossplane.io/knowledge-base/guides/release-cycle/). UXP has a major release every 3 months. Minor patch release are available as needed. Upbound provides support for the current + 3 previous major releases, for a minimum of 12 calendar months of coverage for a given release.

Reviewer: If we commit to supporting current + 3 previous releases, then we are supporting more than what the XP project itself supports, which is only 3 releases. 

From the release-cycle page:
>This results in four releases per year, with the most recent three releases being maintained at any given time. When a new release is cut, the fourth most recent release reaches the end of life (EOL). Users can expect any given release to be maintained for nine months.

What this means is we would need to support a XP release that XP itself doesn't support. It's not impossible to do, but it could bring in all sorts of challenges. If this is what we want as a business we can make this work by shipping patches for unsupported XP release via UXP only rather than upstream as we do today.

> UXP follows the [Crossplane Release Cycle](https://docs.crossplane.io/knowledge-base/guides/release-cycle/). UXP has a major release every 3 months. Minor patch release are available as needed. Upbound provides support for the current + 3 previous major releases, for a minimum of 12 calendar months of coverage for a given release.

Reviewer: We can add that we strive to make a UXP patch release available within 2 business days of it being released upstream in XP.

### Official Provider Schedule

> Official providers are released on an as-needed schedule. Historically this has mapped to major releases twice per month. 

Reviewer: Official providers are released on at least a monthly cadence. 
Technically we start preparing a release on the last Thursday of a month with the goal of releasing on the following Monday at the latest.

I am comfortable committing to a monthly release cadence for providers, with patch releases made available as needed in between major/minor releases.

> Upbound provides support and patch maintenance for the last 12 months of release on Official Providers. A list of official providers is here: [Upbound Marketplace](https://marketplace.upbound.io/providers?tier=official).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upbound provides support and patch maintenance for the last 12 months of Official Provider releases. The list of Official Providers is here: [Upbound Marketplace](https://marketplace.upbound.io/providers?tier=official).
```

## Pre-Releases

> Customers with paid support contracts are eligible for pre-release cuts on an as-needed basis for all covered software.

Reviewer: Today, we make these available for everyone and don't restrict access. Every time a PR is merged we build a preview release with the latest code and this is accessible publicly.

Author: I'm totally cool with overdelivering there.

---
title: Product Lifecycle
---

## Software List

Upbound provides support and software maintenance to paid customers. Supported software products include:

* [UXP]({{< ref "uxp/_index.md" >}})
* [Official Providers]({{< ref "upbound-marketplace/providers/_index.md" >}})

## Maintenance and Updates

Upbound supports Generally Available releases for up to 12 months. 
All software follows semantic versioning of `X.Y.Z`.

> * A major release is a change in the first digit and usually indicates breaking API changes or, in the case of 1.0.0, indicates the first release where the API is considered complete (-enough) and stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A major release is a change in the first digit and usually indicates breaking API changes or, in the case of 1.0.0, indicates the first release where the API is considered complete and stable.
```

> * A minor release is a change in the second digit and usually indicates new features added, and usually also includes bug fixes that might not have been released yet in a previous patch release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A minor release is a change in the second digit and indicates new features were added. It could also include new bug fixes that were not included in a previous patch release.
```

> * A patch release is a change in the third digit and only contains bug fixes, no new features.

Reviewer 2: Maybe intentionally left out: a patch policy
- we fix bugs including backports in supported major releases 
- we backport critical bugs (both functional and security) only to older minor releases.

In other words: we ask customers to move at least to the latest minor release to get non-critical bug fixes.

Author: updated, thanks!

### UXP Schedule

> UXP follows the [Crossplane Release Cycle](https://docs.crossplane.io/knowledge-base/guides/release-cycle/). UXP has a major release every 3 months. Minor patch release are available as needed. Upbound provides support for the current + 2 previous major releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UXP follows the [Crossplane Release Cycle](https://docs.crossplane.io/knowledge-base/guides/release-cycle/). UXP has a major release every 3 months. Minor patch releases are available as needed. Upbound provides support for the current + 2 previous minor releases.
```

### Official Provider Schedule

> Official providers are released at least monthly. 

Reviewer 2: nit: sounds like an unnecessary promise. "Regular schedule is monthly".

Author: we release way more than monthly - 2 or 3x/month on average. This is sandbagged.

Reviewer: That is correct. I am however actively steering us to where we only do this monthly (last Thursday of the month). The exception is if we have customers who need a fix urgently, we will cut an out-of-schedule release of a provider for them.
